All right so in this video we're going to install and configure Intel E.J. for the Mac.
So again a reminder that this video is for the Mac.
And check out the other videos in this section if you're on a Windows machine or using Linux.
The first thing we want to you though is go to GIP brains dot com chip brains is a company that create
or have created the Intel feature idea product which we'll be using in this course to write Java programs.
Once you get to their site nothing over ever tools just hover over that come down here to Intel each
idea.
Click on that and come down here and select download.
I'm just gonna close this little cookie window by clicking on yes I agree this when we do that we've
got two options for Intel.
Once we get to the screen we can download the community edition or the ultimate edition and you can
see that the community edition is free and open source.
So that would be the best option for you if you don't want to pay for the software.
The Ultimate Edition is set up.
If you're a professional programmer and you need access to some of the other features.
So for now I suggest you download the community edition out of the stop at download and you can say
it's downloading up here.
And in terms of the ultimate addition you do get a trial we can a 30 day trial with that.
So if you do want to try that out what I can do is I can actually extend that to a total of a 120 days
intelligence because I've recommended the software so much have graciously given me the ability to give
you a coupon to extend the trial to 120 days.
So if you want to do that get into the last section of this course is a lecturer in that last section
called extending trial for intelligent Ultimate Edition or words to that effect and that will give the
instructions if you want to extend the Ultimate Edition.
But as I mentioned earlier the Community Edition will do everything you want it to do and there's really
no need to get the ultimate edition unless you specifically want to access some of the features on offer
that's a professional programmer would do what I can say at this point.
Now intelligence a Community Edition has downloaded for me I'm going to open it.
They're going to navigate to the folder to double click to open it.
I'm going to close down the browser because we're done with that now place and find a and he'd say being
a Mac application it's quite easy to install it's going to drag it into the applications folder we have
our moment to complete.
So you can see they're competing on the screen
that's now complete.
I want to close up windows and I'm going to close is here I'm going to inject it and the other thing
I would do then is start some just kind of open to find a window.
I'm gonna go to my applications and were fine intelligent idea C C E standing for Community Edition
and a double click that will open it up
we'll give it a moment to verify click on open
now the very first time that you open an intelligent idea.
It is the first time ever on your computer or the first time for a new version you'll get this little
pop up.
This gives you the option if you've already got an installation of intelligent ideas you can select
the location and download or import rather the settings from a previous installation.
Now we don't need to do that here for two reasons.
Firstly we have any setting changes but secondly we haven't got a previous installation either.
Sorry to click on do not import settings but that's an option for you.
And in fact if intelligent found in its previous installation of intelligent on the computer would actually
come up with that directory automatically.
I'm going to select do not import settings and click on okay.
He may or may not get this option here for privacy policy depending where you are in the world.
So I'm just gonna go down to the bottom.
Click on accept.
You can read that and do whatever is appropriate.
Likewise for data sharing.
You may or may not get this but if you do get it I would suggest don't send.
But you can't send anonymous usage statistics to git brains to help improve their software if you want.
I'm going to click on send so now we've got a couple of configuration options.
You can choose the background.
I'm gonna go with a light background like so if you want to choose dark Kula you can do that and you
can change any of these settings and I'm showing you in these settings at a later point so I don't think
that you can't change it down the track.
You can do that if you want to.
I'm gonna click on Next.
I'm going to leave the default came at scheme if you know what you're doing and you want to change things
you can do that but I'm going to leave the default and that's what I'll assume in the course that you're
using the default key map settings click on launch a script.
This is an option if you want to run intelligent idea from the command line.
Now we won't be doing that in this course we'll just be invoking Intel A.J. by studying the icon that
double clicking the icons we normally would but it wouldn't hurt to create to launch a script if you
want to do that.
If you click on that it's there if you need to.
That's a shortcut.
If you're a programmer he uses the command line.
Click on next.
And that's been created for us Intel each idea gives you the option to download install plugins and
you can see there's a variety there.
But all these points on the screen we aren't going to use but you can see it in fact some of them are
actually set in fact all of them are set to be installed anyways.
We're just gonna leave them as they are.
We're not going to change anything and click on Next featured plugins and these options here we aren't
going to install any of those because we're not going to be using these particular plugins for this
course.
So going to click on start using and tele GI idea of Kirby now depending on whether you selected the
launch script or not you'll be asked to enter your password.
I'm going to top that in
and intelligent ideas.
Starting as you can see all right so we've now got intelligent ideas installed but there are a couple
of other things we want to do to get it ready to start using it.
So the first thing we want to do is we want to connect or associate intelligence idea with the Java
development kit.
We downloaded and installed in the previous video.
So to do that I'm going to select configure the command here and select project defaults then I'm going
to select project structure I want to make sure that when this pops up that project is selected and
you can see that was sector by default for me.
Now that's is that this is the first time that I will install intelligent on this computer here an option
that says no SDK if I select that you'll find that it may or may not have picked up that there's a Java
11 installation in my case even though I haven't actually configured intelligence on this computer before
it's actually found the installation for a sort of actually.
So I can just click on that and I could do it that way I could configure it.
But what I'm actually trying to do is come down here to SD ks and I'm going to delete this.
And the reason I'm going to delete it is just to show you how to configure it if for some reason that
wasn't selected.
So if it is there you can leave it as it was showing or saying that it no longer exists.
When I click on you we can select J.D. K. And you can see in this case that automatically intelligence
has found the installation of Java for us.
If I click here you can see that it's found the location and this is the location where the dreaded
Kay was installed automatically for us in the previous video.
So that would be the forward you would need to navigate to if you're doing this manually and for some
reason it didn't pop up automatically.
We've got the JT K 11 folder contents and home.
But again intelligence as you saw found that for us automatically I'm going to click on open and you
can see that we've got eleven Java Version 11 showing there.
The other thing we need to do is change his project language level.
When I click on here and we also want to click on and make that eleven.
So that is set to the same version of the Java developer kit that we're going to be using.
So I'm going to click on that you'll get this pop up and this is because it's relatively new.
So when I click on accept that I most likely will disappear up to where that pop up I click on except
if you say it and then click on.
Okay.
All right.
So at this point we've now configured the Java development kit for intelligence so that we can use that
to create Java programs.
Now there's a couple of other settings which are optional but a highly recommended.
So what I'm going to do is just configure those now and then we'll actually be done.
So to get access to those settings on a click on configure I'm going to select preferences when that
opens I'm going to come over here and select editor clicking on the disclosure triangle going to come
out a general click on that and then I can click on the disclosure triangle and I'm going to first select
auto import.
And there's two checkboxes here we want to select to check rather first one ad an ambiguous imports
on the fly.
And the second optimize inputs on the fly for current project.
Now actually talk later about what these are for but for now we're just going to configure this and
set these settings up and these settings will be applied for every new project we create in the course.
All right so moving on the next thing I want to select is appearance when I click on that you want to
make sure that show line numbers is checked.
You can see here that that is checked.
So we don't need to do anything there.
Then last area we need to go into his code forwarding.
So I'm gonna click on that and what we're going to do is select or uncheck a number of these checkboxes.
Now the reason we're checking them is we don't want intelligence to try and hide any of our code.
When you're a professional programmer you'll find that you'll often want to hide aspects of the code
that you're very familiar with.
But when you're just starting out it's a good idea to make sure none of that happens.
So for that reason I'm going to uncheck imports.
I'm also going to uncheck what line methods I'm going to uncheck closures.
And finally I'm going to uncheck generic constructor and method parameters.
So don't worry too much about what they mean.
I'll talk more about that in later videos.
The point here is that we do selecting those so that we can access to all the code when we're writing
our Java programs.
So we'll click kind of K to save those changes.
And at this point we're now done.
All right.
Some of the previous video we installed the Java developer kit in this video we've been through the
process of installing and configuring Intel each idea.
And we've associated it with the Java developer kit and we've configured a few settings as well.
At this point we're ready to move on to the next video.
And in actual fact you can skip the next two videos because they relate to an installation of the Jedi
K and Intel T.J. idea for a Linux platform.
So skip those two videos and look for the video after that.
That's got a title of first steps and in that video we'll start work on creating our first Java program.
So I'll see you in that video.